it was the worst thing I've had to deal
with in all my
years in 1961 Outsiders would arrive in
the Mexican Village of yba bua and over
the next 2 years the lies these people
told would snowball into sacrifices to
forgotten gods and the eventual Massacre
of the village by the authorities the
internet has been telling the story
incorrectly since the turn of the
century this is the true story of yagua
and the Bloody cult which led to its
destruction
[Music]
[Applause]
the small indigenous farming community
of yab bua was truly remote it had no
roads no electricity no running water
and was home to only about 50 native
Mexican
Farmers the only way in or out of Yaba
was through a rough beaten C track which
led to a distant Highway it was upon
this track in 1961 that newcomers
appeared in yba bua the two would surely
be the first Outsiders to set foot in
the village unannounced in living memory
situated at the base of Sero el pon as
it was you couldn't simply stumble
across the village these people had come
here with a purpose Magdalena and alizar
soless were fraternal twins born in 1945
they were only 16 years old when they
ventured out of the tree line into yab
bua they had grown up in Monteray near V
Leon where they had learned about
spiritism the religious study of the
Supernatural spiritism is deeply rooted
in the indigenous people of Mexico
during the Mexican Revolution at the
beginning of the 20th century
spiritualism and spiritism became
Inseparable from the anti-government
Revolutionary movement Francisco I of
Madero founder of the anti-realist party
and the man credited with starting the
Mexican Revolution was a spiritist and
medium in 1911 he published the
spiritist manual based upon his spirit
teachings in France and claimed he
started the Mexican Revolution upon
guidance from the spirit in his writings
he describes the true Mexican religion
from Antiquity and argued that the
Catholicism that replaced it become an
instrument of domination over the people
of
Mexico spiritists believed that the
original ancient religion of Mexico had
been preserved its teachings passed down
to a select view with the goal of one
day overthrowing Catholicism and
returning the religion of their their
ancestors to the Mexican people
Magdalena and elar Soles left Monteray
together in 1961 traveling south between
small indigenous communities they used
the beliefs of these people to their
advantage by claiming to be adepts of
the True Religion instilling its
teachings as a way of scamming food and
shelter from these communities for
slipping
away emboldened by the success of their
scam they traveled into tulipas to the
Village of yab bua to orchestrate
something more long term they again
presented themselves as adeps of the old
religion reincarnation is a core part of
Mexican spiritism and so Magdalena
played the part of a reincarnated Faith
Ela and Mystic whilst alizar was The
Reincarnation of St Francis or aisi the
twins would slowly reveal the true
ancient religion to the farmers of
yababa how their ancestors had beli that
the civilizations of ancient Mexico that
of the Aztecs and toek had been older
and even more advanced than the ancient
[Music]
Egyptians in the beginning very little
had changed in the twins scam they asked
for food and shelter praying upon the
generous Hospitality of the villagers
Magdalena and ala slowly drip fed the
farmer's information about their
supposed identities and their knowledge
of the old
gods the scam allowed them to extract
many more resources from the villagers
than they were willing to spare the
twins knew that there would be a point
when the villagers discovered their
dishonesty and the hospitality strange
as it was would come to an end however
this time they planned on staying much
longer when the farmers began asking for
more substantial evidence from the twins
they agreed to per an ancient ritual to
prove their supposed
identities the twins's ritual involved
the theatrical Brewing of a potion which
they claimed had the super superatural
power to Grant Visions but in reality it
was laced with marijuana they convinced
the villagers to drink this potion now
drugged and in a more suggestible State
the sober twins would continue to
reinforce and convince the villagers of
their lies this proved to be a powerful
and effective
technique every time the villagers began
to doubt the lies of Magdalena and alar
Solis the twins would develop new
rituals to quell the disbelievers each
time upping the state
they began with an amendment for the
first ritual the addition of animal
blood the ingredients of the drugged
potion next they Incorporated elaborate
costumes into the rituals covering
themselves in body paint and Feathers
imitating the clothing of ancient Aztec
priests and
priestesses two groups began to form in
yab bua those who believed Melena and
alar and those villagers who still had
their doubts in the spring of 1962 the
twins ordained two of the most faithful
villagers to help them perform rituals
and to act as muscle to extract tributes
from the
non-believers they chose the brothers
Santos and katano Hernandez who had
grown up in yab bua like all of those in
the farming Community the brothers
toiled endlessly day in day out in the
fields surrounding the village with
little else to do the brothers had
welcomed the arrival of Magdalena and
elar sth they readily drank the drugged
potion and deeply believed the twins
lies and in their fabricated power the
herand brothers were cruel and enjoyed
exerting their newly found authority
over the non-believers with the extra
Manpower alizar aided by the brothers
constructed a temple for the rituals
high in the mountain caves above yababa
they erected a wooden deas around a flat
stone slab to act as an alter with a
thatched roof supported by four wooden
pillars the villagers would make the
treack through the jungle and into the
cavern to watch the nightly
rituals the twins now lived lavishly
aided by the additional protection
provided
by the Hernandez Brothers however a
conflict of interest began to grow
between the Twins and their newly
ordained Santos and katano while the
soless twin's goal was to draw out the
scam for as long as possible but
Hernando's Brothers Wanted only to
increase the following and influence of
the fledgling cult the twins couldn't be
seen as limiting the growth of the cult
especially since the brothers kept
urging them towards even greater and
greater spectacles this conflict between
the priest and their teenage leaders
would come to a head at the end of April
[Music]
1962 as night fell upon yab bua the
villagers made the usual track through
the forest up the mountain path to the
cavern there Magdalena elizar Santos and
kyano were gathered beneath the thatched
roof of their makeshift Temple G in the
body paint and feathers of ancient
Aztec as before they drugged the
villagers who willingly drank the soless
twins potion of blood and marijuana as
they had become addicted to concoction
over the course of many
rituals kyano stepped to the front of
the deas and quieted the crowd he called
for a volunteer someone to offer
themselves as a willing sacrifice to the
old gods katano promised that whoever
they sacrificed would Ascend to the
realm of gods to live with them for
eternity
incredibly from the testimony of those
who had survived the sacrifices and
bloodshed yet to come one of the
villagers offered themselves willingly
at the very first sacrifice so powerful
were the drugs and lies of the soless
twins that the villagers of yab bua were
willing to lay down their lives for
Magdalena and
ala katano guided the unfortunate farmer
to The Altar and instructed them to lie
a top it the Hernandez Brothers then
made quick and gruesome work of the
indiv individual Santas and katano
sliced open the body and removed the
victim's still beating
[Music]
heart after their murderous fervor
subsided katano and Santos collected the
victim's blood from a top the altar to
substitute the animal blood previously
used in the twins
potion the potion was once again passed
round
finally the sacrifices corpse was
carried to the corner of the cave and
set a
light twins grasp have become so
powerful upon the farmers of yab bua
that the villagers were now content and
complicit with murder and
cannibalism and if they had any doubts
or reservations none were willing to
speak out at least for the next 12
months during this time at the end of
each month the villagers would enter the
cave and emerge one fewer in Lumber few
I witness testimonies remain those that
do describe a tragic and horrifying
series of events in which without fail
every month for a year a willing
sacrifice stepped forth from the crowd
and towards that Bloody altar the Solace
twins had lost control of the lies they
told soon to owe the lives of at least
people on May 31st 1963 the villagers of
yba bua made their way through Through
the Jungle to the mountain cave for the
monthly sacrifice the villagers consumed
the ritual potion and the herandez
brothers unknowingly called forth their
final victim from within the crowd of
adult Farmers Selena Silvana volunteered
herself however just before she reached
the altar finally after months of
Silence someone spoke
out Hector Solace Selena's quote
childhood sweetheart could no longer
bring herself to sit idly by as his
persecutions occurred he caught up to
her right before the daysis and
confronted Selena desperately trying to
intervene but she wouldn't listen to him
she wanted to be sacrificed straight to
a god to Liv in guaranteed Bliss forever
Selena picked up a stone and gave it to
him begging him to use it to crush out
her life they struggled she fell and the
others rushed in on them knocking Hector
out and pelting Selena with stones until
she was
senseless by the time Hector had come to
his senses it was too late katano and
Santos had dragged Selena's body at top
The Altar and removed her heart enraged
and grief stricken Hector fought briefly
with some of the villagers trying to
reach and kill the herand brothers he
quickly realized it was to no avail
Selena was well and truly dead Hector
departed from the cave after the
altercation leaving the cultist to drain
the body of blood and to burn the
remains he returned to his wife and four
children in the village bowing to report
the cult to the
police at dawn Hector left Yaba waya and
headed towards the nearest police
department in Villa Gran where he met
with Police Inspector abalo G Gomez
inspector Gomez asked Hector to recall
as many names of the cultist as possible
and wrote them down down he instructed
Hector to return to yab bua as if
nothing had happened while inspector
Gomez collected his men and prepared for
a
raid when Hector returned to yab bua the
Hernando's brothers were waiting for him
and slit his throat with a machete but
not before discovering that the
authorities were on their
way inspector Gomez gathered his men in
Villa Gran and started the track to yab
bua whilst katano and Santos gathered
their most loyal followers to defend the
soless twins police poured into the
farming community Through the rough
beaten cart track and katano came out to
meet them inspector Gomez questioned
katano from a distance demanding to know
what was truly going on in yab bua
katano claimed to know nothing of the
cult and to be but a simple farmer but
Gomez wasn't fooled so
easily he told me he was a farmer like
all the rest I have not been a rural
policeman for long years for nothing I
knew knew he was lying I told Luis
Martinez one of my men to take him in
for questioning when Martinez stepped
forward Gano brought out his machete
fast as Lightning and nearly cut
Martinez's head off killing him
instantly before kyano could make it
halfway back to the Hut from which the
cultists were mounting their defense
police had filled him with lead this
prompted Santos and the others to return
fire roben instructed his officers to
spread out take cover and return fire
bullets ripped through the thin walls of
the Hut in both directions when the
gunfire settled inspector Gomez and his
men carefully approached the
Hut we systematically shot up the mud
hut so that no one inside could stay
alive when we went in they were all on
the floor dead Santos with them caught
in the crossfire a boy called Sebastian
Guerrero 14 was shot dead by the end of
the day had taken 40 prisoners and
captured Magdalena and alar
Soles in the cave above the village the
police found piled in the corner the
remains of all 13 victims including the
charred remains of Selena from the night
before Gomez orders his men to remove
the remains for burial and to torch the
thatched
temple it was the worst thing I've had
to deal within all my years after this
nothing can surprise me upon questioning
the detainees it was discovered that the
cult has spread to the neighboring
Village of delgardo realizing the
situation was too large for the small
local police station the inspector
called in federal troops from tampo 12
people were ultimately charged and found
guilty of murder whilst the Twins were
held as the police continued to gather
more evidence and dismantle what was
left of the cult
[Music]
when I first approached this video topic
the themes and outline of the video were
completely different from those of the
final product the more research I did
into this cult the more I came to
realize that the internet's modern
retelling of the story is so far removed
from the ground truth that the two are
now becoming almost indistinguishable
we'll begin with the Wikipedia entry for
Magdalena soless the article begins as
follows magdalina Solace known as The
High Priestess of blood allegedly was a
serial killer and cult leader
responsible for orchestrating several
murders which involve the drinking of
victim's
blood she is regarded as one of the few
documented instances of a sexually
motivated female serial killer showing
organized Visionary and hedonistic
characteristics I think you can see
where these stories depart from each
other now most sources online don't even
mention her brother elazar and the said
claim the cult was started by the
Hernandez brother brothers katano and
Santos these same sources fixate
themselves on the supposed sexual aspect
of the cult and more disturbingly
hyperfixate on magdalen's sexuality I'll
remind you that she was just 16 when the
cult began they claimed that Magdalena
was a prostitute from Monteray and when
the herandez brothers began to lose
control of the cult they traveled from
yab bua to Monteray to recruit her this
seems very unlikely as montere is over
148 km away from yab bua and across
state
borders the actual position of yab bua
is also of some debate the Wikipedia
article claims it's in San Louis poosi
indeed it was initially very difficult
to track down its actual location but
yab bua villagran and delgardo are all
in
tulipas looking at the edit history of
the Wikipedia page we find that most of
it was copied over from the Spanish
language Wikipedia on August 3rd 2021
interestingly while the Spanish page
includes the correct location for yab
bua this detail wasn't copied over to
the English site the Spanish page itself
has changed very little since it was
created it initially cited only two blog
style sources from 2002 and
2003 both these sources retell the
incorrect version of the tale but allow
us to date with some degree of
confidence the latest possible origin of
this online
version the absolute earliest Source I
could find was a new newspaper clipping
from Texas the Valley Evening monitor
which was dated to June 13th 1963 1
month after the final sacrifice and raid
took place it reports the 12 members of
The Cult were eventually found guilty of
murder and the cult was started by the
Twins and not the Hernandez Brothers
there is no mention here of the supposed
sexual aspect of the cult one year later
in 1964 an American called bill star
travels to Mexico and interviews an
alardo G Gomez about a case he had read
about in American
newspapers inspector Gomez relayed to
Bill star how Magdalena and Alisa soless
started the cult in the nearby Village
of Yaba and how after years of Lies they
lost control of this
cult bill star would then write up and
send this story to Curtis and Mary
Fuller owners of Fate magazine which
published quote true stories of the
strange and the
unknown star's interview of Gomez was
later reproduced in 2002
in the book The Mammoth book of women
who kill this is where I first found
Stars
tale whilst it's difficult to say for
sure whether Bill sar's interview of
Gomez is the absolute truth of the
matter after months of research I can
say it's the most trustworthy Source
existing on the internet in comparison
to sources like Crimes of the 20th
century ecology
quote Santos and katano convinced
lesbian prostitute magdalina soles and
her homosexual brother lar come to Yaba
to participate in the mountain cave
rights in the midst of this spirited
emotional right high priest Santos
Hernandez sexually purified a teenage
girl Selena salvana Magdalena Solace
watched the intimacies between Santos
and Selena which stimulated her own
desires for the girl Santos then passed
the young Selena to Magdalena while
alizar and kado who also preferred males
took advantage of the boys in the
assemblage
I mean that's some absolutely insane
homophobic
nonsense until next time
[Music]